Add VE use case docs (#8933)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/refguide/modeling/domain-model/entities/view-entities/charting-with-view-entities.md

---
title: "Charting with View Entities"
url: /refguide/charting-with-view-entities/

---

## Introduction

> Use view entities to create charts in Studio Pro using aggregated data. 

Reviewer: I would give a bit more description to the Introduction and perhaps use a bit less "use" in two sentences. :) 
```suggestion
You can use view entities to create charts in Studio Pro using aggregated data. 
```

> For this purpose of this use case, the following domain model is used:

Reviewer: Does this need to go to the section below where we have the use case described?

{{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/view-entities/charting-with-view-entities/domain-model.png" width="500" >}}

## Create Charts with View Entities

> In this scenario, imagine you own a small business. To keep track of what is being sold, you want to visualize your sales. You want to see how much you make in sales each year, and how each product category contributes to the number. You would like your chart to look similar to the one below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you own a small business. To keep track of what is being sold, you want to visualize your sales. You want to see how much you make in sales each year, and how each product category contributes to the number. You would like your chart to look similar to the one below:
```

For the chart, you want the year on the X axis, and the total sales on the Y axis. Create a view entity that groups this data by product category. To do this, follow the steps below:

1. Open your domain model and create a new view entity named *YearlySalesByCategoryVE*. 
2. Add the following query to the OQL editor:

```
SELECT
  CAST(DATEPART(YEAR, o.OrderDate) as INTEGER) as OrderYear
  , c.CategoryId as CategoryId
  , c.CategoryName as CategoryName
  , SUM(ol.Quantity * ol.UnitPrice * (1 - ol.Discount)) as TotalSales
FROM SalesDashboard."Order" as o
  JOIN SalesDashboard.OrderLine_Order/SalesDashboard.OrderLine as ol
  LEFT JOIN SalesDashboard.OrderLine_Product/SalesDashboard.Product as p
  LEFT JOIN SalesDashboard.Product_Category/SalesDashboard.Category as c
GROUP BY c.CategoryId, c.CategoryName, CAST(DATEPART(YEAR, o.OrderDate) as INTEGER)
``` 

{{% alert color="info" %}}

View entities allow you to calculate and aggregate the total sales in a single line. You can also take the year by using `DateTime`. 
{{% /alert %}}

### Create the Chart

> Use the new view entity to create a chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the new view entity to create a chart. Follow the steps below:
```

> 1. Create a new page (or open any existing page).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new page or open an existing page.
```

> 2. Navigate to the Toolbox and add a Column chart to the page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to the **Toolbox** and add a **Column chart** to the page. 
```

> 3. Double-click the chart and in the Data Source field, click **New**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Double-click the chart and in the **Data Source** field, click **New**. 
```

4. Configure the chart by filling out the following:

> * Data set - **Multiple series**

Reviewer: This list will break, it needs to be moved by 4 spaces.

* Data source - **YearlySalesByCategoryVE**
* Group by - **CategoryId** 
* X axis attribute - **OrderYear**
* Y axis attribute - **TotalSales*

> 5. Set the series name to reflect the Category name. Do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Set the series name to reflect the category name. Do the following:
```

>    * In the Series name field, click **Edit** and add **{1}** in the Template field. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * In the **Series name** field, click **Edit** and add **{1}** in the **Template** field. 
```

>    * In the Parameters field, click **New** > **Select** > **CategoryName** > **Select** > **OK**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * In the **Parameters** field, click **New** > **Select** > **CategoryName** > **Select** > **OK**.
```

> {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/view-entities/charting-with-view-entities/series-name.png" >}}

Reviewer: I think this should indent the image correctly, but needs a check on the local build.
```suggestion
        {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/view-entities/charting-with-view-entities/series-name.png" >}}
```

>  The chart should be configured as seen below: 

Reviewer: This will break the list, needs proper indentation as well as the image below.
